ALLY
Tariqa Waters: Oh man, just be somebody’s
friend! I don’t know….
Jerrell Davis: I don’t know, when I hear
“allies,” I think of war.
Autumn Bennett: The term ally to me typically
applies to like, countries in war.
Cynthia Tee: “Ally” is really somebody
in the privileged camp being able to champion
somebody who is not privileged or being targeted.
Sean Riley: Someone who stands up for the
marginalized, knowing that there's probably
a social cost to that.
Mark Olsen: The way I understand that word
is it's somebody who is sympathetic or has
joined a cause that they feel that they normally
wouldn't because they're white. I really don't
like the word because it is very divisive.
It emphasizes these, these battle lines that we have.
Autumn: So it's like we're using war terms
to determine like support of groups and that's
like, we've turned this into some sort of
social war.
Mark: I don't think it's helpful, because
we're all in it together.
Jerrell: People always seem to put it
on us. Like, “Black folk, y'all just need
to get y'all communities together, and then
you can rise.” It's like, bro, there's only
so many of us and we're living in a culture
that we don't control the output. We gotta
address the people that do, and they gotta
be on our team. We got to speak to the white folk.
Rachael DeCruz: They're able to use their
privilege in that space to kind of, either
hold other people accountable, or have a different
kind of conversation. When it's coming from
another white person it's, people receive
it differently, it feels different, right?
It's coming from a peer.
Marci Owens: We kind of get that stamp of
like, oh, a angry black man or black woman
again. But if a white person kind of steps
up, it kind of becomes just a different voice in the fight.
Tariqa: I would have you know, you know, a
little more respect for the “White Privilege”
single that Macklemore dropped if he didn't
ask so many people of color to participate
in the song. Just do it, say it. Go out there
and say it by yourself. You've been in the
world long enough to know the deal.
Louis Chude-Sokei: Like, we made a joke in
media that is always like, that one of the best
jobs for black actors is the black best friend,
right, or the sassy black girlfriend, right?
The ally is like “the white friend,” the
righteous white guy, right? The down white girl.
Keli Carender: I don't really have a lot of
experience with that word. I don’t know,
I would consider myself an ally of most people,
like, because I want everyone to have freedom.
I believe in individual rights. I don't believe
in group rights. I believe every individual
has the same rights as every other individual.
Ayn Rand said that the smallest minority is the individual.
Greg Rickel: I can't claim I'm an ally. I think the people that need me as an ally are
the only ones that can say that I am one.
What I'd hope to be is someone who listens more than talks.
M. Lorena González: A good white ally will
give space to communities of color and leaders
within communities of color to set the agenda
and lead on the agenda.
Leija Farr: Some white people will, like,
stand in the front and kind of like –
I mean, I know they're trying to support, but
you have to like let us take our actions.
And then just be that support system that
we go to.
Tariqa: Malcolm X said it best, “You can
help, but you can’t join.”
I was like “oh no…”
Varisha Khan: When you're from an underprivileged
group there's a lot of things that you wish
that someone from a position, someone from
a position of privilege will do to help you.
Whether that's speaking in a certain way,
or whether that's not speaking at all.
If you really truly do want to help, listen
to what we have to say.
Marci: If you don't take the time to learn
about their struggle, I don't think you can
be properly be an ally or say you’re an
ally.
Duck Bae: Be like, I'm here to listen. Please
tell me everything. I'm ignorant and I acknowledge it
and I'd like you to teach me.
Darrell Hillaire: Willing to listen and understand
and stand up for each other's beliefs, you know,
even if we disagree, you know.
Autumn: I don't support any type of victimhood.
So I think an ally is somebody who is like,
in some ways, feels like if they don't do
this they'll either be A, out of the group
or B, they're somehow bad for not supporting
something. And I think that's what happens
to a lot of people. They just feel like pressured
into it, because trust me. Not agreeing with
all this stuff is way harder than agreeing
with it.
Keli: You should have this phrase on here:
"virtue signaling." I think that a lot of
people practice virtue signaling. So they
get to signal to other people that they are virtuous.
Tariqa: If it's like a Beyonce or Macklemore
song, it’s easy to play and say “Yeah,
I played it, I shared it, you know, I hashtagged
it, I'm done.”
Duck: Ally when it is used incorrectly is
slapping a term on yourself and being like,
“My job is now done. I'm an ally.”
Louis: It becomes a way of demonstrating your
moral and political rectitude, that you're
on the right side of history, because of who
you affiliate yourself with, right.
It doesn't mean that you're doing work.
Cynthia: There's a lot of really good intention.
And yet the gap between good intention and
the ability to be a strong ally is actually
a lot bigger than I think most people think it is.
There's a lot to be learned that's
actually not very obvious.
JOIN THE CONVERSATION